                                                                                   
                                                                                   
5. Radiographics. 2011 Sep-Oct;31(5):1379-402.                                     
                                                                                   
IgG4-related Sclerosing Disease: Autoimmune Pancreatitis and Extrapancreatic       
Manifestations.                                                                    
                                                                                   
Vlachou PA, Khalili K, Jang HJ, Fischer S, Hirschfield GM, Kim TK.                 
                                                                                   
Departments of Medical Imaging and Pathology, Toronto General Hospital,            
University of Toronto, 585 University Ave, Toronto, Ont, Canada M5G 2N2.           
                                                                                   
Autoimmune pancreatitis is the pancreatic manifestation of IgG4-related            
sclerosing disease, which recently was recognized as a distinct disease entity.    
Numerous extrapancreatic organs, such as the bile ducts, gallbladder, kidneys,     
retroperitoneum, thyroid, salivary glands, lung, mediastinum, lymph nodes, and     
prostate may be involved, either synchronously or metachronously. Most cases of    
autoimmune pancreatitis are associated with elevated serum IgG4 levels; extensive  
IgG4-positive plasma cells; and infiltration of lymphocytes into various organs,   
which leads to fibrosis. There are several established diagnostic criteria         
systems that are used to diagnose autoimmune pancreatitis and that rely on a       
combination of imaging findings of the pancreas and other organs, serologic        
findings, pancreatic histologic findings, and response to corticosteroid therapy.  
It is important to recognize multiorgan involvement of IgG4-related sclerosing     
disease and be familiar with its clinical and imaging features because it          
demonstrates a favorable response to treatment. © RSNA, 2011.                      
                                                                                   
                                                                                   
PMID: 21918050  [PubMed - in process]                                              







































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































