8. PLoS One. 2011;6(9):e24143. Epub 2011 Sep 7.                                    
                                                                                   
Plasma free amino Acid profiling of five types of cancer patients and its          
application for early detection.                                                   
                                                                                   
Miyagi Y, Higashiyama M, Gochi A, Akaike M, Ishikawa T, Miura T, Saruki N, Bando   
E, Kimura H, Imamura F, Moriyama M, Ikeda I, Chiba A, Oshita F, Imaizumi A,        
Yamamoto H, Miyano H, Horimoto K, Tochikubo O, Mitsushima T, Yamakado M, Okamoto   
N.                                                                                 
                                                                                   
Molecular Pathology and Genetics Division, Kanagawa Cancer Center, Yokohama,       
Japan.                                                                             
                                                                                   
BACKGROUND: Recently, rapid advances have been made in metabolomics-based,         
easy-to-use early cancer detection methods using blood samples. Among              
metabolites, profiling of plasma free amino acids (PFAAs) is a promising approach  
because PFAAs link all organ systems and have important roles in metabolism.       
Furthermore, PFAA profiles are known to be influenced by specific diseases,        
including cancers. Therefore, the purpose of the present study was to determine    
the characteristics of the PFAA profiles in cancer patients and the possibility    
of using this information for early detection.                                     
METHODS AND FINDINGS: Plasma samples were collected from approximately 200         
patients from multiple institutes, each diagnosed with one of the following five   
types of cancer: lung, gastric, colorectal, breast, or prostate cancer. Patients   
were compared to gender- and age- matched controls also used in this study. The    
PFAA levels were measured using high-performance liquid chromatography             
(HPLC)-electrospray ionization (ESI)-mass spectrometry (MS). Univariate analysis   
revealed significant differences in the PFAA profiles between the controls and     
the patients with any of the five types of cancer listed above, even those with    
asymptomatic early-stage disease. Furthermore, multivariate analysis clearly       
discriminated the cancer patients from the controls in terms of the area under     
the receiver-operator characteristics curve (AUC of ROC >0.75 for each cancer),    
regardless of cancer stage. Because this study was designed as case-control        
study, further investigations, including model construction and validation using   
cohorts with larger sample sizes, are necessary to determine the usefulness of     
PFAA profiling.                                                                    
CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that PFAA profiling has great potential for    
improving cancer screening and diagnosis and understanding disease pathogenesis.   
PFAA profiles can also be used to determine various disease diagnoses from a       
single blood sample, which involves a relatively simple plasma assay and imposes   
a lower physical burden on subjects when compared to existing screening methods.   
                                                                                   
                                                                                   
PMID: 21915291  [PubMed - in process]                                              
                                                                                   
                                                                                   
9. Can Urol Assoc J. 2011 Sep 8:1-4. doi: 10.5489/cuaj.10195. [Epub ahead of print]
                                                                                   
Cancer Care Ontario Guidelines for radical prostatectomy: striving for continuous  
quality improvement in community practice.                                         
                                                                                   
Webster TM, Newell C, Amrhein JF, Newell KJ.                                       
                                                                                   
Department of Urology, Grey Bruce Health Services, Owen Sound, ON;                 
                                                                                   
OBJECTIVE: Cancer Care Ontario has published an evidence-based guideline on their  
website "Guideline for Optimization of Surgical and Pathological Quality           
Performance for Radical Prostatectomy in Prostate Cancer Management: Surgical and  
Pathological Guidelines." The evidentiary base for this guideline was recently     
published in CUAJ. The CCO guideline proposes the following: a positive surgical   
margin (PSM) rate of <25% for organ-confined disease (pT2), a perioperative        
mortality of <1%, a rate of rectal injury <1%, and a blood transfusion rate <10%   
in non-anemic patients. The objective of this study was to review the radical      
prostatectomy practice at the Grey Bruce Health Services, an Ontario community     
hospital, and to compare our performance in relation to the Cancer Care Ontario    
guideline and the literature. METHODS: We conducted a retrospective review of all  
radical prostatectomies performed at the Grey Bruce Health Services from January   
1, 2006 to December 31, 2007. The following data were obtained from clinical       
records and pathology reports: patient age, pre-biopsy prostate-specific antigen,  
biopsy Gleason score, resected prostate gland weight, radical prostatectomy        
Gleason score, surgical margin status, pathological tumour stage (pT), lymph node  
dissection status, perioperative incidence of transfusion of blood products and    
if the patient was anemic (hemoglobin <140 g/L) pre-operatively, incidence of      
rectal injury, and perioperative mortality within 30 days following surgery.       
RESULTS: Using the method proposed by D'Amico, most patients undergoing radical    
prostatectomy were intermediate risk (62%), with a minority of low-risk (24%) and  
high-risk (14%) patients. The overall PSM rate was 37%. The rate of PSMs in        
organ-confined disease (pT2) was 26%. There was a statistically significant trend  
between increasing D'Amico risk category and increasing rate of PSM                
(Cochran-Armitage trend test, p = 0.023). There was a strong correlation between   
the pathological tumour stage and the rate of PSM (Cochran-Armitage trend test, p  
= 0.0003). The rate of blood transfusion in non-anemic patients was 6%. There was  
1 patient (0.8%) who experienced a rectal injury. There were no perioperative      
deaths in our study group. CONCLUSION: Our results show that a community hospital  
group can appropriately select patients to undergo radical prostatectomy, as well  
as achieve an acceptable rate of PSMs. We believe that ongoing critical appraisal  
and reflective practice are essential to improving surgical outcomes and           
providing quality care.                                                            
                                                                                   
                                                                                   
PMID: 21914426  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]                                
                                                                                   
                                                                                   
10. Zhonghua Bing Li Xue Za Zhi. 2011 Jun;40(6):392-6.                             
                                                                                   
[TMPRSS2-ERG gene fusion in metastatic prostate cancers: a study of fine needle    
aspiration specimens].                                                             
                                                                                   
[Article in Chinese]                                                               
                                                                                   
Xiao L, Zhu XZ, Wang Y, Gong Y, Guo CC.                                            
                                                                                   
Department of Pathology, Huadong Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai 200040,      
China.                                                                             
                                                                                   
OBJECTIVE: To investigate diagnostic values of the detection of TMPRSS2-ERG gene   
fusion in metastatic prostate cancer.                                              
METHODS: A total of 32 fine needle aspiration (FNA) specimens of metastatic        
prostate carcinomas were retrieved from the pathology files at MD Anderson Cancer  
Center. The metastatic sites included the pelvic and remote lymph nodes, liver,    
bone, and thyroid gland. Immunohistochemical staining for PSA, PAP,                
synaptophysin, chromogranin A was performed. TMPRSS2-ERG gene fusion was           
evaluated on sections of cell blocks by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH)  
using ERG gene break-apart probes.                                                 
RESULTS: The mean age of the patients was 67 years. Twenty-six patients had a      
previous history of prostatic adenocarcinoma, while 6 patients presented           
initially with metastasis. In 11 patients, the metastatic lesions showed           
characteristic features of small cell carcinoma (SCC) and were positive for        
synaptophysin (9/9), chromogranin A (7/8), but negative for prostatic specific     
antigen (7/7). FISH analysis demonstrated a rearrangement of ERG gene in 10 of 32  
cases (31.3%), and the rearrangement was associated with deletion of the 5' ERG    
gene in 6 cases. In addition, the copy number of ERG rearrangement gene locus was  
increased in 8 cases. Among the 11 cases with SCC features, a rearrangement of     
ERG gene was present in 5 cases, of which a deletion of the 5' ERG gene and        
increased copy number were seen in 3 cases.                                        
CONCLUSIONS: TMPRSS2-ERG gene fusion can be evaluated in FNA specimens of          
metastatic prostate cancer. Metastatic prostate cancers have a high prevalence of  
TMPRSS2-ERG gene fusion along with a frequent copy number increase of ERG gene.    
TMPRSS2-ERG gene fusion persists in metastatic prostate cancers and even in those  
with poorly differentiated SCC features. Therefore, an identification of the       
TMPRSS2-ERG gene fusion may be used to establish the prostatic origin of           
metastasis.                                                                        
                                                                                   
                                                                                   
PMID: 21914348  [PubMed - in process]                                              
                                                                                   
                                                                                   
11. Zhonghua Bing Li Xue Za Zhi. 2011 Jun;40(6):382-6.                             
                                                                                   
[PSCA expression in invasive micropapillary carcinoma of breast].                  
                                                                                   
[Article in Chinese]                                                               
                                                                                   
Hao JY, Yang YL, Li S, Qian XL, Liu FF, Fu L.                                      
                                                                                   
Department of Breast Cancer Pathology and Research Laboratory, State Key           
Laboratory of Breast Cancer Research, Cancer Hospital of Tianjin Medical           
University, Tianjin 300060, China.                                                 
                                                                                   
OBJECTIVE: To study the expression of prostate stem cell antigen (PSCA) at         
protein and mRNA levels in invasive micropapillary carcinoma of the breast (IMPC)  
and to analyze the relationship between PSCA expression and clinicopathologic      
features.                                                                          
METHODS: The expression of PSCA protein was analyzed by immunohistochemistry       
(LSAB) in 66 cases of IMPC and 67 cases of invasive ductal carcinoma, not          
otherwise specified (IDC-NOS). The association between PSCA expression and         
clinicopathologic features was also analyzed in IMPC. Furthermore, RT-PCR was      
used to detect PSCA mRNA in 10 cases of primary IMPC and 10 cases of primary       
IDC-NOS with paired normal breast tissues, each from the same subject.             
RESULTS: Immunohistochemical analysis revealed the overexpression of PSCA in 47    
of 66 (71.2%) cases of IMPC and 35 of 67 (52.2%) IDC-NOS. Statistical analysis     
showed a significant difference of PSCA expression between IMPC and IDC-NOS (P =   
0.024). In IMPC, the expression of PSCA was correlated with lymph nodes            
metastasis (P = 0.039). RT-PCR showed the mRNA level of PSCA was significantly     
higher in primary IMPC and IDC-NOS tissue than that in paired normal breast        
tissue (7/10 and 5/10, respectively), and it was also significantly higher in      
primary IMPC tissue than that in IDC-NOS tissue.                                   
CONCLUSION: PSCA might play an important role in lymph node metastasis in IMPC.    
                                                                                   
                                                                                   
PMID: 21914346  [PubMed - in process]                                              
                                                                                   
                                                                                   
12. Zhonghua Wai Ke Za Zhi. 2011 Jun 1;49(6):542-5.                                
                                                                                   
[Modified transperitoneal laparoscopic radical prostatectomy: technique and        
clinical outcomes].                                                                
                                                                                   
[Article in Chinese]                                                               
                                                                                   
Shao PF, Yin CJ, Meng XX, Ju XB, L¸ Q, Li J, Qin C, Zhang W, Gu M, Hua LX, Xu ZQ.  
                                                                                   
Department of Urology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing Medical            
University, Nanjing 210029, China.                                                 
                                                                                   
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the technique and clinical outcomes of modified             
transperitoneal laparoscopic radical prostatectomy.                                
METHODS: A total of 105 patients received the operation with age ranging from 51   
to 73 years from January 2008 to June 2010. Mean level of serum prostate specific  
antigen was 13.6 µg/L and mean prostatic volume was 45 ml. Pathological studies    
of biopsy confirmed the prostate carcinoma with Gleason score 6-8. Radionuclide    
bone scan revealed no metastasis. Based on previously retroperitoneal radical      
prostatectomy, modified technique was applied involving surgical approach,         
bladder neck dissection and vesicourethral anastomosis.                            
RESULTS: Mean operative time was 93 min (65 - 150 min). Intraoperative blood loss  
was 115 ml (50 - 400 ml). No complication of bowl injury occurred. Positive        
surgical margin was present in 24 patients. Normal continence were seen in 64      
patients after catheter removed. Recovery of incontinence within 3 months was      
seen in 33 patients and 3 to 12 months in 5 patients respectively. Three patients  
with incontinence were still in the follow-up.                                     
CONCLUSIONS: Transperitoneal laparoscopic radical prostatectomy provides large     
working space and clear anatomic exposure. Higher efficiency and lower             
complication rate are obtained through modified laparoscopic technique involving   
seminal vesicle isolation, bladder neck dissection and vesicourethral              
anastomosis.                                                                       
                                                                                   
                                                                                   
PMID: 21914307  [PubMed - in process]                                              
                                                                                   
                                                                                   
13. Eur Radiol. 2011 Sep 14. [Epub ahead of print]                                 
                                                                                   
Prostate MRI: diffusion-weighted imaging at 1.5T correlates better with            
prostatectomy Gleason grades than TRUS-guided biopsies in peripheral zone          
tumours.                                                                           
                                                                                   
Bittencourt LK, Barentsz JO, de Miranda LC, Gasparetto EL.                         
                                                                                   
CDPI Clinics-Abdominal and Pelvic Imaging, Rio de Janeiro Federal University, Av.  
Das Americas, 4666, sl 325, centro medico, 22640102, Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brazil,   
lkayat@gmail.com.                                                                  
                                                                                   
OBJECTIVES: To investigate the usefulness of Apparent Diffusion Coefficients       
(ADC) in predicting prostatectomy Gleason Grades (pGG) and Scores (GS), compared   
with ultrasound-guided biopsy Gleason Grades (bGG). METHODS: Twenty-four patients  
with biopsy-proven prostate cancer were included in the study. Diffusion-weighted  
images were obtained using 1.5-T MR with a pelvic phased-array coil. Median ADC    
values (b0,500,1000 s/mm≤) were measured at the most suspicious areas in the       
peripheral zone. The relationship between ADC values and pGG or GS was assessed    
using Pearson's coefficient. The relationship between bGG and pGG or GS was also   
evaluated. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis was performed    
to assess the performance of each method on a qualitative level. RESULTS: A        
significant negative correlation was found between mean ADCs of suspicious         
lesions and their pGG (r?=?-0.55; p?<?0.01) and GS (r?=?-0.63; p?<?0.01). No       
significant correlation was found between bGG and pGG (r?=?0.042; p?>?0.05) or GS  
(r?=?0.048; p?>?0.05). ROC analysis revealed a discriminatory performance of       
AUC?=?0.82 for ADC and AUC?=?0.46 for bGG in discerning low-grade from             
intermediate/high-grade lesions. CONCLUSIONS: The ADC values of suspicious areas   
in the peripheral zone perform better than bGG in the correlation with prostate    
cancer aggressiveness, although with considerable intra-subject heterogeneity.     
KEY POINTS: ï Prostate cancer aggressiveness is probably underestimated and        
undersampled by routine ultrasound-guided biopsies. ï Diffusion-weighted MR        
images show good linear correlation with prostate cancer aggressiveness. ï DWI     
information may be used to improve risk-assessment in prostate cancer.             
                                                                                   
                                                                                   
PMID: 21913058  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]                                
                                                                                   
                                                                                   
14. Adv Urol. 2012;2012:656023. Epub 2011 Sep 7.                                   
                                                                                   
A rare location of metastasis from prostate cancer: hydronephrosis associated      
with ureteral metastasis.                                                          
                                                                                   
Schneider S, Popp D, Denzinger S, Otto W.                                          
                                                                                   
Department of Urology, St. Joseph's Mecial Center, University of Regensburg,       
Landshuter Straﬂe 65, 93053 Regensburg, Germany.                                   
                                                                                   
Prostate carcinoma is a very rare origin of metastatic disease in the ureter. We   
report a case of a 74-year-old man who presented in November 2008 initially with   
flank pain and lower urinary tract symptoms. Diagnostic investigation revealed a   
skeletal metastasizing prostate carcinoma, and the cause for the flank pain was a  
hydronephrosis due to ureteral metastasis diagnosed by biopsy. Antihormonal        
treatment led to disappearance of the hydronephrosis; however, further progress    
finally ended in acute liver failure with patient's death in July 2010.            
                                                                                   
                                                                                   
PMCID: PMC3168270                                                                  
PMID: 21912541  [PubMed - in process]                                              
                                                                                   
                                                                                   
15. Prostate Cancer Prostatic Dis. 2011 Sep 13. doi: 10.1038/pcan.2011.45. [Epub   
ahead of print]                                                                    
                                                                                   
Inverse association of p16(INK4a) and p14(ARF) methylation of the CDKN2a locus in  
different Gleason scores of prostate cancer.                                       
                                                                                   
Verdoodt B, Sommerer F, Palisaar RJ, Noldus J, Vogt M, Nambiar S, Tannapfel A,     
Mirmohammadsadegh A, Neid M.                                                       
                                                                                   
Institute of Pathology, Ruhr-University Bochum, Bochum, Germany.                   
                                                                                   
Background:Promoter hypermethylation is an important epigenetic mechanism in the   
regulation of several key modulators of prostate carcinoma progression. Recent     
studies suggest that the polycomb-group (PcG) protein BMI1 may have an impact on   
epigenetic regulation of several targets, including the CDKN2a locus.Methods:In    
this study, we investigated the association of BMI1 expression, promoter           
methylation of CDKN2a (p16(INK4a) and p14(ARF)) and TMS1 with pathological         
variables (Gleason score, TNM stage, perineural invasion) in prostate cancer       
(PCa).Results:Methylation of p16(INK4a) and p14(ARF) revealed an inverse           
association with Gleason score 7b and Gleason score 6. No significant association  
could be demonstrated for BMI1 -overexpression and promoter methylation of         
p16(INK4a), p14(ARF) and TMS1 as well as pT category.Conclusions:Our data suggest  
that the CDKN2a locus is a switch in PCa with methylation of p16(INK4a) being a    
marker for more aggressive tumours of Gleason score 7b, but no association with    
BMI overexpression was observed.Prostate Cancer and Prostatic Diseases advance     
online publication, 13 September 2011; doi:10.1038/pcan.2011.45.                   
                                                                                   
                                                                                   
PMID: 21912429  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]                                
                                                                                   
                                                                                   
16. Prostate Cancer Prostatic Dis. 2011 Sep 13. doi: 10.1038/pcan.2011.43. [Epub   
ahead of print]                                                                    
                                                                                   
Prevalence of BPH and lower urinary tract symptoms in West Africans.               
                                                                                   
Chokkalingam AP, Yeboah ED, Demarzo A, Netto G, Yu K, Biritwum RB, Tettey Y,       
Adjei A, Jadallah S, Li Y, Chu LW, Chia D, Niwa S, Partin A, Thompson IM,          
Roehrborn C, Hoover RN, Hsing AW.                                                  
                                                                                   
UC Berkeley School of Public Health, University of California, Berkeley, CA, USA.  
                                                                                   
Background:BPH and lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS) are very common among       
older men in Western countries. However, the prevalence of these two conditions    
in the developing countries is less clear.Methods:We assessed the                  
age-standardized prevalence of BPH and/or LUTS among West Africans in a            
probability sample of 950 men aged 50-74 in Accra, Ghana, with no evidence of      
biopsy-confirmed prostate cancer after screening with PSA and digital rectal       
examination (DRE). Information on LUTS was based on self-reports of the            
International Prostate Symptom Score (IPSS). BPH was estimated using DRE, PSA      
levels and imputed prostate volume.Results:The prevalence of DRE-detected          
enlarged prostate was 62.3%, while that of PSA?1.5?ng?ml(-1) (an estimate of       
prostate volume ? 30?cm(3)) was 35.3%. The prevalence of moderate-to-severe LUTS   
(IPSS?8) was 19.9%. The prevalence of IPSS?8 and an enlarged prostate on DRE was   
13.3%. Although there is no universally agreed-upon definition of BPH/LUTS,        
making comparisons across populations difficult, BPH and/or LUTS appear to be      
quite common among older Ghanaian men.Conclusions:We found that after age          
standardization, the prevalence of DRE-detected enlarged prostate in Ghanaian men  
is higher than previously reported for American men, but the prevalence of LUTS    
was lower than previously reported for African Americans. Further studies are      
needed to confirm these findings and identify the risk factors for BPH in both     
Africans and African Americans.Prostate Cancer and Prostatic Diseases advance      
online publication, 13 September 2011; doi:10.1038/pcan.2011.43.                   
                                                                                   
                                                                                   
PMID: 21912428  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]                                
                                                                                   
                                                                                   
17. Ir J Med Sci. 2011 Sep 11. [Epub ahead of print]                               
                                                                                   
Survival after incidental prostate cancer diagnosis at transurethral resection of  
prostate: 10-year outcomes.                                                        
                                                                                   
Ahmad S, O'Kelly F, Manecksha RP, Cullen IM, Flynn RJ, McDermott TE, Grainger R,   
Thornhill JA.                                                                      
                                                                                   
Department of Urology, The Adelaide and Meath Hospital incorporating the National  
Children's Hospital, Tallaght, Dublin, Ireland, drsarfrazrana@hotmail.com.         
                                                                                   
BACKGROUND: The most appropriate management of incidental prostate cancers         
diagnosed at transurethral resection of prostate has been debated. It is           
important to determine the long-term outcomes to establish an appropriate          
management in patients with incidental prostate cancer. AIMS: We aim to determine  
10-year survival and to identify the factors of worse prognosis of incidental      
prostate cancers diagnosed at transurethral resection of prostate. METHODS: A      
retrospective analysis of patients with pT1a-pT1b prostate cancers diagnosed       
between 1998 and 2003. Medical notes, PSA and pathology results were reviewed.     
Overall and cancer specific survival was calculated at mean 10-year follow-up.     
RESULTS: Sixty patients with incidental prostate cancer were identified            
(pT1a = 18, pT1b = 42). Fifty-one percents of the patients were managed on a       
watchful waiting strategy with overall 84% survival and 9.7% cancer specific       
mortality. Twenty patients (all with pT1b) received hormone therapy. Overall       
survival in this cohort was 50% with 20% cancer specific mortality. Nine patients  
received curative therapy (Radical prostatectomy = 4, Radiotherapy = 5). In this   
group, overall survival was 88% with no cancer specific mortality. CONCLUSIONS:    
Stage pT1a disease and preoperative low PSA were associated with favourable        
survival. However, for pT1b and/or high Gleason score (=7), mortality was          
comparatively higher. Hence, patients with high Gleason score and/or pT1b disease  
should be considered for curative therapy. Additionally, active surveillance may   
have a role in selected men with incidental prostate cancer.                       
                                                                                   
                                                                                   
PMID: 21910023  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]                                
                                                                                   
                                                                                   
18. Urology. 2011 Sep 10. [Epub ahead of print]                                    
                                                                                   
Prevalence of Fluoroquinolone-resistant Escherichia coli Before and Incidence of   
Acute Bacterial Prostatitis After Prostate Biopsy.                                 
                                                                                   
Minamida S, Satoh T, Tabata K, Kimura M, Tsumura H, Kurosaka S, Matsumoto K,       
Fujita T, Iwamura M, Baba S.                                                       
                                                                                   
Department of Urology, Kitasato University School of Medicine, 1-15-1 Kitasato,    
Minami-ku, Sagamihara, Kanagawa 252-0374, Japan.                                   
                                                                                   
OBJECTIVE: To study the prevalence of fluoroquinolone-resistant Escherichia coli   
before transrectal ultrasound (TRUS)-guided prostate biopsy and prospectively      
analyze the rates of infective complications after biopsy in patients receiving    
fluoroquinolone prophylaxis. E. coli is the pathogen most commonly associated      
with infections after TRUS-guided prostate biopsy, and the prevalence of           
fluoroquinolone-resistant E. coli is increasing. METHODS: We analyzed the          
prospective data from 100 patients who underwent TRUS-guided prostate biopsy from  
April to December 2010. A stool culture was obtained 1 month before biopsy.        
Patients received 500 mg levofloxacin orally once daily for 3 days, beginning 2    
hours before biopsy. All biopsies were performed as outpatient procedures.         
RESULTS: Of the 100 patients, 13 (13%) had a stool culture positive for            
fluoroquinolone-resistant E. coli. In 4 (31%) of these 13 patients, acute          
bacterial prostatitis was detected after TRUS-guided prostate biopsy. Of the 87    
patients whose stool culture was negative for fluoroquinolone-resistant E. coli,   
none had acute bacterial prostatitis. All 13 infected patients were treated with   
carbapenems immediately after diagnosis of prostatitis and made a complete         
recovery. CONCLUSION: Prophylactic fluoroquinolone is still effective in           
preventing acute bacterial prostatitis after TRUS-guided prostate biopsy. The      
incidence is relatively low in patients with fluoroquinolone-sensitive E. coli.    
However, the prevalence of fluoroquinolone-resistant E. coli is about 13% in this  
population. Stool cultures for the detection of fluoroquinolone-resistant E. coli  
might be obtained before TRUS-guided prostate biopsy.                              
                                                                                   
                                                                                   
PMID: 21908030  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]                                
                                                                                   
                                                                                   
19. Urol Oncol. 2011 Sep 7. [Epub ahead of print]                                  
                                                                                   
Combined magnetic resonance spectroscopy and dynamic contrast-enhanced imaging     
for prostate cancer detection.                                                     
                                                                                   
Perdon‡ S, Di Lorenzo G, Autorino R, Buonerba C, De Sio M, Setola SV, Fusco R,     
Ronza FM, Caraglia M, Ferro M, Petrillo A.                                         
                                                                                   
Urology Section, Istituto Nazionale Tumori, Fondazione G. Pascale, Naples, Italy.  
                                                                                   
BACKGROUND: The use of magnetic resonance spectroscopy imaging (MRSI) and dynamic  
contrast enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (DCE-MRI) have emerged as a valid     
diagnostic tools for prostate cancer (CaP). METHODS: Men with PSA levels below 10  
ng/ml were enrolled in a prospective cohort study and underwent combined MRSI and  
DCE-MRI and transrectal ultrasound-guided prostate biopsy. Imaging was performed   
using a 1.5 T MR scanner (Symphony TIM; Siemens, Erlangen, Germany) with an        
endorectal coil (Medrad; Pittsburg, PA), inflated with 60 cc of air.               
Three-dimensional magnetic resonance spectroscopic data were acquired by using     
water and a lipid-suppressed double-spin-echo point-resolved spectroscopy          
sequence, which was optimized for quantitative detection of both choline and       
citrate. Dynamic contrast-enhanced MRI sequences were obtained with 3D             
T1-weighted FLASH images before and during rapid bolus administration of           
intravenous paramagnetic contrast medium gadoteric acid. Specificity,              
sensitivity, positive predictive value, negative predictive value, and accuracy    
were computed considering patients, each of the 2 lobes, each of the 6 sextants,   
and each 12th part of the prostate gland as single measurements. RESULTS:          
Overall, 106 patients were included in the analysis. Median age was 65.9 years     
(range, 61.2-70.5 years) and median PSA level at study entry was 7.1 ng/ml         
(range, 2.5-9.9). CaP was detected at biopsy in 24 patients (22.6 % of the         
population) with a median Gleason score of 8 (range 4-10). Diagnostic accuracy of  
combined MRSI and DCE-MRI was 85%, sensitivity was 71%, and specificity was 48%,   
considering patients as single measurements, with a negative predictive value of   
91%, but a positive predictive value of only 19%. Positive predictive value of     
the examination improved to 25% for patients who repeated biopsy. CONCLUSIONS:     
Although this study confirms the potential usefulness of MRI for the diagnosis of  
CaP, the positive predictive value obtained was unacceptably low due to the high   
number of false positives recorded. Nevertheless, the high negative predictive     
value of the examination may serve to avoid unnecessary biopsies. Future research  
should be directed at assessing the value of combining MRI-based techniques with   
novel biochemical markers for the diagnosis of CaP in patients with low PSA        
levels.                                                                            
                                                                                   
                                                                                   
PMID: 21906966  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]                                
                                                                                   
                                                                                   
20. Urol Oncol. 2011 Sep 7. [Epub ahead of print]                                  
                                                                                   
Fine-tuning robot-assisted radical prostatectomy planning with MRI.                
                                                                                   
Finley DS, Margolis D, Raman SS, Ellingson BM, Natarajan S, Tan N, Huang J,        
Reiter RE.                                                                         
                                                                                   
Department of Urology, Kaiser Permanente Los Angeles Medical Center, Los Angeles,  
CA 90027, USA.                                                                     
                                                                                   
OBJECTIVES: Robot-assisted radical prostatectomy (RARP) has now become the most    
common surgical treatment option for prostate cancer (CaP). Clinicopathologic      
data (i.e., biopsy, digital rectal exam, prostate specific antigen level) and      
patient-specific factors (e.g., age, erectile function, co-morbidities) are the    
primary sources of information that urologists use for counseling and treatment    
decision making. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has evolved along a similar      
temporal arc to RARP, with increased utilization and precision over the past       
decade. MRI prior to RARP provides multifaceted adjunctive information, including  
enhancement of locoregional staging, delineation of spatial anatomic information,  
and identification of aberrant anatomy, all of which aid in patient treatment      
counseling and operative planning. This article is designed for urologic surgeons  
who perform RARP, with the aim of providing a review of prostate MRI imaging and   
highlighting findings which may specifically alter the operation. METHODS AND      
MATERIALS: A review of the literature was performed, focusing on the most recent   
publications. RESULTS: MRI imaging of the prostate has become increasing accurate  
for the identification, localization, and characterization of CaP lesions. In      
addition to tumor-specific information, a number of intra- and extra-prostatic     
findings are consistently identified on MRI which may impact RARP. CONCLUSIONS:    
MRI provides important information which may alter RARP.                           
                                                                                   
                                                                                   
PMID: 21906964  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]                                
                                                                                   