                                                                                   
                                                                                   
2. Kulak Burun Bogaz Ihtis Derg. 2011 Sep-Oct;21(5):285-9. doi:                    
10.5606/kbbihtisas.2011.043.                                                       
                                                                                   
Metastatic adenocarcinomas of the temporal bone: a report of three cases.          
                                                                                   
Dogan E, Erdag TK, Sarioglu S, Güneri EA.                                          
                                                                                   
Department of Otolaryngology, Medicine Faculty of Dokuz Eylül University, Izmir,   
Turkey. ersoy.dogan@deu.edu.tr.                                                    
                                                                                   
We reported three cases with adenocarcinomas of the lung, prostate and stomach,    
which metastasized to the temporal bone. Two of them had proven adenocarcinoma of  
the lung and stomach, respectively at the time of the diagnosis of the temporal    
bone tumor. But the other patient had no known primary malignancy when the tumor   
in the petrous apex was demonstrated radiologically. First he underwent biopsy of  
the petrous apex lesion and the pathology was reported as malignant; then a        
probable distant malignancy spreading to the temporal bone was suspected and       
searched for. Subsequently, his prostate adenocarcinoma was proved with prostate   
biopsy.                                                                            
                                                                                   
                                                                                   
PMID: 21919836  [PubMed - in process]                                              





















































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































