1. Clin Chem. 2011 Sep 15. [Epub ahead of print]                                   
                                                                                   
Avoiding Pitfalls in Applying Prediction Models, as Illustrated by the Example of  
Prostate Cancer Diagnosis.                                                         
                                                                                   
Cammann H, Jung K, Meyer HA, Stephan C.                                            
                                                                                   
Unstitute of Medical Informatics and.                                              
                                                                                   
BACKGROUND: The use of different mathematical models to support medical decisions  
is accompanied by increasing uncertainties when they are applied in practice.      
Using prostate cancer (PCa) risk models as an example, we recommend requirements   
for model development and draw attention to possible pitfalls so as to avoid the   
uncritical use of these models. CONTENT: We conducted MEDLINE searches for         
applications of multivariate models supporting the prediction of PCa risk. We      
critically reviewed the methodological aspects of model development and the        
biological and analytical variability of the parameters used for model             
development. In addition, we reviewed the role of prostate biopsy as the gold      
standard for confirming diagnoses. In addition, we analyzed different methods of   
model evaluation with respect to their application to different populations. When  
using models in clinical practice, one must validate the results with a            
population from the application field. Typical model characteristics (such as      
discrimination performance and calibration) and methods for assessing the risk of  
a decision should be used when evaluating a model's output. The choice of a model  
should be based on these results and on the practicality of its use. SUMMARY: To   
avoid possible errors in applying prediction models (the risk of PCa, for          
example) requires examining the possible pitfalls of the underlying mathematical   
models in the context of the individual case. The main tools for this purpose are  
discrimination, calibration, and decision curve analysis.                          
                                                                                   
                                                                                   
PMID: 21920913  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]                                













































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































