20. Urol Oncol. 2011 Sep 7. [Epub ahead of print]                                  
                                                                                   
Fine-tuning robot-assisted radical prostatectomy planning with MRI.                
                                                                                   
Finley DS, Margolis D, Raman SS, Ellingson BM, Natarajan S, Tan N, Huang J,        
Reiter RE.                                                                         
                                                                                   
Department of Urology, Kaiser Permanente Los Angeles Medical Center, Los Angeles,  
CA 90027, USA.                                                                     
                                                                                   
OBJECTIVES: Robot-assisted radical prostatectomy (RARP) has now become the most    
common surgical treatment option for prostate cancer (CaP). Clinicopathologic      
data (i.e., biopsy, digital rectal exam, prostate specific antigen level) and      
patient-specific factors (e.g., age, erectile function, co-morbidities) are the    
primary sources of information that urologists use for counseling and treatment    
decision making. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has evolved along a similar      
temporal arc to RARP, with increased utilization and precision over the past       
decade. MRI prior to RARP provides multifaceted adjunctive information, including  
enhancement of locoregional staging, delineation of spatial anatomic information,  
and identification of aberrant anatomy, all of which aid in patient treatment      
counseling and operative planning. This article is designed for urologic surgeons  
who perform RARP, with the aim of providing a review of prostate MRI imaging and   
highlighting findings which may specifically alter the operation. METHODS AND      
MATERIALS: A review of the literature was performed, focusing on the most recent   
publications. RESULTS: MRI imaging of the prostate has become increasing accurate  
for the identification, localization, and characterization of CaP lesions. In      
addition to tumor-specific information, a number of intra- and extra-prostatic     
findings are consistently identified on MRI which may impact RARP. CONCLUSIONS:    
MRI provides important information which may alter RARP.                           
                                                                                   
                                                                                   
PMID: 21906964  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]                                
                                                                                   