                                                                                   
                                                                                   
4. Cancer. 2011 Sep 14. doi: 10.1002/cncr.26544. [Epub ahead of print]             
                                                                                   
The impact of biomarkers in multivariate algorithms for bladder cancer diagnosis   
in patients with hematuria.                                                        
                                                                                   
Abogunrin F, O'Kane HF, Ruddock MW, Stevenson M, Reid CN, O'Sullivan JM, Anderson  
NH, O'Rourke D, Duggan B, Lamont JV, Boyd RE, Hamilton P, Nambirajan T,            
Williamson KE.                                                                     
                                                                                   
Centre for Cancer Research & Cell Biology, Queens University Belfast, Belfast,     
Ireland.                                                                           
                                                                                   
BACKGROUND: We appraised 23 biomarkers previously associated with urothelial       
cancer in a case-control study. Our aim was to determine whether single            
biomarkers and/or multivariate algorithms significantly improved on the            
predictive power of an algorithm based on demographics for prediction of           
urothelial cancer in patients presenting with hematuria. METHODS: Twenty-two       
biomarkers in urine and carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) in serum were evaluated     
using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISAs) and biochip array technology in  
2 patient cohorts: 80 patients with urothelial cancer, and 77 controls with        
confounding pathologies. We used Forward Wald binary logistic regression analyses  
to create algorithms based on demographic variables designated prior predicted     
probability (PPP) and multivariate algorithms, which included PPP as a single      
variable. Areas under the curve (AUC) were determined after receiver-operator      
characteristic (ROC) analysis for single biomarkers and algorithms. RESULTS:       
After univariate analysis, 9 biomarkers were differentially expressed (t test; P   
< .05). CEA AUC 0.74; bladder tumor antigen (BTA) AUC 0.74; and nuclear matrix     
protein (NMP22) 0.79. PPP included age and smoking years; AUC 0.76. An algorithm   
including PPP, NMP22, and epidermal growth factor (EGF) significantly improved     
AUC to 0.90 when compared with PPP. The algorithm including PPP, BTA, CEA, and     
thrombomodulin (TM) increased AUC to 0.86. Sensitivities = 91%, 91%; and           
specificities = 80%, 71%, respectively, for the algorithms. CONCLUSIONS: Addition  
of biomarkers representing diverse carcinogenic pathways can significantly impact  
on the ROC statistic based on demographics. Benign prostate hyperplasia was a      
significant confounding pathology and identification of nonmuscle invasive         
urothelial cancer remains a challenge. Cancer 2011. © 2011 American Cancer         
Society.                                                                           
                                                                                   
                                                                                   
PMID: 21918968  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]                                




































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































