                                                                                   
                                                                                   
3. Prostate. 2011 Sep 14. doi: 10.1002/pros.21484. [Epub ahead of print]           
                                                                                   
Ghrelin receptor as a novel imaging target for prostatic neoplasms.                
                                                                                   
Lu C, McFarland MS, Nesbitt RL, Williams AK, Chan S, Gomez-Lemus J, Autran AM,     
Al-Zahrani A, Chin JL, Izawa JI, Luyt LG, Lewis JD.                                
                                                                                   
Translational Prostate Cancer Research Group, London Regional Cancer Program,      
London, Ontario, Canada; Divisions of Urology and Surgical Oncology, University    
of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, Canada.                                       
                                                                                   
BACKGROUND: Ghrelin is a natural growth hormone secretagogue (GHS) that is         
co-expressed with its receptor GHSR in human prostate cancer (PCa) cells. Imaging  
probes that target receptors for ghrelin may delineate PCas from benign disease.   
The specificity of a novel ghrelin-imaging probe for PCa over normal tissue or     
benign disease was assessed. METHODS: A fluorescein-bearing ghrelin analogue was   
synthesized (fluorescein-ghrelin(1-18)), and its application for imaging was       
evaluated in a panel of PCa cell lines and human prostate tissue. Prostate core    
biopsy samples were collected from fresh surgery specimens of 13 patients          
undergoing radical prostatectomy. Ghrelin probe signal was detected and            
quantified in each sample using a hapten amplification technique and associated    
with pathological features. RESULTS: The ghrelin probe was taken up by             
GHSR-expressing LNCaP and PC-3 cells, and not in BPH cells that express low        
levels of GHSR. Binding was blocked by competition with excess unlabeled probe.    
The ghrelin probe signal was 4.7 times higher in PCa compared to benign            
hyperplasia tissue (P?=?0.0027) and normal tissue (P?=?0.0093). Furthermore,       
while the ghrelin probe signal was 1.9-fold higher in PIN compared to benign       
hyperplasia (P?=?0.0022) and normal tissue (P?=?0.0047), there was no significant  
difference in the signal of benign hyperplasia compared to normal tissue.          
CONCLUSION: The imaging probe fluorescein-ghrelin(1-18) is specific for PCa, and   
did not associate significantly with benign hyperplasia or normal prostate         
tissue. This data suggests that ghrelin analogues may be useful as molecular       
imaging probes for prostatic neoplasms in both localized and metastatic disease.   
Prostate © 2011 Wiley-Liss, Inc.                                                   
                                                                                   
                                                                                   
PMID: 21919027  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]                                














































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































